

Enable port security

S1(config)# interface f0/1
S1(config-if)# switchport port-security
Command rejected: FastEthernet0/1 is a dynamic port.
S1(config-if)# switchport mode access
S1(config-if)# switchport port-security
S1(config-if)# end
S1


Use the interface name fa0/5 to enter interface configuration mode.
Enable the port for access mode.
Enable port security.
Set the maximum number of MAC address to 3.
Statically configure the MAC address aaaa.bbbb.1234.
Configure the port to dynamically learn additional MAC addresses and dynamically add them to the running configuration.
Return to privileged EXEC mode.


interface fa0/5
switchport mode access
switchport port-security
switchport port-security maximum 3
switchport port-security mac-address aaaa.bbbb.1234
switchport port-security mac-address sticky
end


Enter the command to verify port security for all interfaces.

show port-security

show port-security interface fa0/5
Port Security              : Enabled
Port Status                : Secure-up
Violation Mode             : Shutdown
Aging Time                 : 0 mins
Aging Type                 : Absolute
SecureStatic Address Aging : Disabled
Maximum MAC Addresses      : 3
Total MAC Addresses        : 2
Configured MAC Addresses   : 1
Sticky MAC Addresses       : 1
Last Source Address:Vlan   : 0090.2135.6B8C:1
Security Violation Count   : 0
Enter the command that will display all of the addresses to verify that the manually configured and dynamically learned MAC addresses are in the running configuration.

show port-security address




Access the command line for S1 and enable port
security on Fast Ethernet ports 0/1 and 0/2.
Open Configuration Window

interface range f0/1 – 2
switchport port-security

Set the maximum so that only one device can
 access the Fast Ethernet ports 0/1 and 0/2.

switchport port-security maximum 1

Secure the ports so that the MAC address of a 
device is dynamically learned and added to the running
configuration.

switchport port-security mac-address sticky

Set the violation mode so that the Fast Ethernet ports
 0/1 and 0/2 are not disabled when a violation
occurs, but a notification of the security violation is generated and packets from the unknown source are
dropped.

switchport port-security violation restrict


e. Disable all the remaining unused ports. 
Use the range keyword to apply this configuration to all the ports
simultaneously.

interface range f0/3 - 24, g0/1 - 2
shutdown